AMO Sequence Identification

Archaeal species for this analysis can be found in the file Species_Codes_Archaea.
Bacterial species for this analysis can be found in the file Species_Codes_Bacteria.

AMO subunits for Nitrososphaera viennensis can be found in the file Nvie_AMO_subunits_ABCXYZ.
AMO subutnis for Nitrosocaldus cavascurensis can be found in the file Ncav_AMO_subunitsABCXYZ.

Alignment commands using mafft can be found in the file hmmer_command.sh.

Step 1
  Selected sequences for AOA and AOB were used to make HMMs for subunits AmoA, AmoB, and AmoC.
  These sequences can be found in the folder "Sequences for HMMs".

Step 2
  HMMs were made for each domain for AmoA, AmoB, and AmoC.
  HMMs can be found in the folder "HMMs".

Step 3
  Multiple sequence alignments were made using both domains for AmoA, AmoB, and AmoC.
  These alignments can be found in the folder "AmoABC Alignments Both Domains".

Step 4
  Extended regions of AmoB and AmoC in bacteria were trimmed using Trimal.
  Alignments and trimal command can be found in the folder "Trimming of AmoB and AmoC Alignments".

Step 5
  HMMs were created using the trimmed bacterial regions.
  These HMMs were searched against archaeal proteins for postibive matches.
  None were found.

Step 6
  To find other archaeal sequences, AmoX, AmoY, and AmoZ were blasted against archaeal genomes.
  The top hit from each genome was collected and a HMM was created for AmoX, AmoY, and AmoZ.
  The hmmsearch command used can be foun in the file hmmer_command.sh.

Step 7
  HMMs for AmoX, AmoY, adn AmoZ were used to identify final candidataes in archaeal species.
  No hits were found in bacterial species.

Step 8
  Final AMO sequences from archaea can be found for each species in the folder "Identified Subunits in Archaea".
  Each file contains hits for the six AMO subunis and corresponding e-values form hmmsearch.
  In cases with multiple hits for AmoX, AmoY, and AmoZ, e-values and synteny were used to select the most likely candidate.
  Final results can be found in Table S16 of manuscript.

Step 9
  Domain specific alignments for each subunit can be found in the folder "Domain Specific Alignments".
